# CS50 – NOTES AND REMINDERS
#### Video Demo: <https://youtu.be/2k7OVjkJGDA>
#### Description:
This program developed using Flask, HTML and CSS is designed to keep track of Notes, Reminders and Events for individual users.
All pages are built upon a Layout.HTML template which provides the overall layout design of the web app.
The User is greeted with a Login Page (login.html) which allows the user to access their information. If not yet registered, the user can redirect to a Register Page (register.html).
Register.html requires the user to input a username, password and password confirmation which if not completed will return a message to require input, however if successful will add the user to an SQL database as part of a Users table.
The SQLite3 database has 7 tables (Users, Notes, Notes_Archive, Reminders, Reminders_Archive, To_do, To-Do_Archive) to hold various data. Each table has been setup with the fields corresponding with the Add Route located in app.py.
Once logged in, the user is directed to the Add Page (add.html) allowing the user to select a checkbox to add a “Note”, “Reminder”, or “Event”. Text can then be entered in a text box and a completion date, completion time and priority can be assigned.
Upon submission of the form, the Add Route within App.py stores the form data in individual variables. The database is then opened and the record is added to the relevant table dependant on the users checkbox input. If successful, a flash message is displayed on the page to confirm to the user that the action has been completed, and the user is redirected to the page dependant on their event choice.
Routings have been created for three types of input - Notes, Reminders, and To-Do to handle the data required on each page. Each of these routings first checks that the user is logged into an account, if successful, a variable is created to store the table data for the relevant input, based on the correct user id. A second variable is also created to store the data from the archive table of the same input for the user. Finally a return function is used to render these two variables on the required pages.
LAYOUT.HTML
The layout.html page contains the overall layout for the entire web app. Bootstrap has been included to add aesthetic features to the app, and a Styles.CSS sheet has also been created and included to control the look of the app.
Navigation is handled using Bootstrap navbar with various blocks of Flask syntax to control the behaviour of various elements of the navigation bar.
CSS
The styles.css file handles the look of various aspects of the web app. A background colour has been applied to maintain a common theme throughout all pages, and Navbar controls have been included to control the scheme of the Navbar.
NOTES.HTML, REMINDERS.HTML and TO-DO.HTML
Three pages of the web app (notes.html, reminders.html and to-do.html) operate in a similar way. Initially extending the layout.html page as per Flask syntax, a block title has been included to show the title of the page, and a block main function has been used to return data from the Flask app.py to the individual pages.
A table has been created with five rows, each with a title corresponding with the SQLite3 database titles. A “for” statement has then been used to display each row within the notes_database, reminders_database, and to-do_database variables (set in each route within app.py) as new table data.
A form has also been nested in the “Complete” and “Delete” columns of the table to allow the user to mark the row as complete or delete, each of which actions a different route within app.py. The complete button firstly checks that the correct user is logged in, a variable is then created to store the necessary database (Notes, Reminders, To-Do). If the note variable is created, an if statement is then used to store each variable within the specific record of the SQL database. These values are then written to the _archive tables using db.execute(“INSERT...”) and finally, the record is deleted from the original table. The purpose of this is to move the row from the active table within each page of the app, to an Archive table at the bottom of each page. Once complete, a Flash note is displayed to confirm the action.
This method has been used for a “Delete” button nested in both the main active table, and the archive table to allow the user to delete a record if desired. This follows either a delete_note route or a delete_note_archive route for each table. This is replicated for the notes.html, reminders.html and to-do.html pages/routes.
A view.html page has been added to include an overview of all three event types. This page pulls on the already created routings.
